Introduction
Tools and libraries that are available in the GraphQL ecosystem. GraphQL is just a specification and there is no programming language tied to it. Due to this, there are plenty of libraries developed to support different languages.

If you take a look at the big picture architecture, we have a client which could be your mobile, web, or desktop app that needs to request data from the server. The server then needs to process that request and interact with the database or other microservices to obtain that information. The server finally responds back to the client. Now the client then uses that information to update its user interface. Here is where it makes sense to explore the options in the GraphQL ecosystem.

GraphQL Clients are the layer that handles talking to the server and getting the response back.  
 The next layer is the GraphQL Server. That takes care of the creation of the API and handling the query from the client and sends the appropriate response back.

GraphQL Client
The GraphQL Client handles sending requests or queries to the server and it receives the response in the form of a JSON from the server. It also integrates well with your front-end view components and it is responsible for any updates to the UI after it receives a response from the server.

Caching is crucial for better performance. You may want to cache the data that was previously requested from the server and ensure a better user experience. The GraphQL Clients can handle caching the query results for you. What else can the client do? GraphQL is entirely based on the schema and the schema essentially acts like a contract between the client and the server.

This means the GraphQL Clients can validate and even optimize queries that the client wants to send at build time. It can also help catch errors at an early stage. Some GraphQL Clients also provide local state management options for your app and local caching. Some clients provide pagination options to ensure you don't need to fetch too much data all at once.

GraphQL Clients basically make your life easier as a front-end developer while writing GraphQL queries to fetch data.

GraphQL Server

In simple terms, a GraphQL Server receives the query from the client and responds back, and that is the primary purpose of your server. So far, we only saw how the front-end uses a GraphQL Client to write queries to the server. The real work to set up your GraphQL API happens, of course, in the back-end. The GraphQL Server layer is where the back-end developer will design and create the GraphQL schema and API. Here is where the resolver functions are written as well. Let's stop here a minute and get this cleared up. So, what is a resolver function? A resolver function is a function that resolves a value for a type or field in our GraphQL schema. Resolvers can return objects or scalars like strings, numbers, Booleans, et cetera. They can also resolve values from another REST API, database, cache, or any other source. So, the GraphQL Server is where we'd write these resolver function. All right, what else is the server responsible for? The network layer; the queries from the client needs to be transported to the server through the network over HTTPS. This is also a responsibility of our GraphQL Server. The next important piece is the GraphQL Execution Engine. The engine is what is responsible for parsing the query from the client, validating the schema, and returning the JSON response back. Now, GraphQL has an execution algorithm to determine how these queries are transformed into results. It's actually pretty cool. The query that we receive is traversed field by field, executing resolvers for each field. At the end, the execution algorithm puts everything together into the correct shape for the results and returns that. This is where the concept of batch resolving comes into play. We can make this fetching a bit smarter. By making batch requests, we ensure that we do only one fetch to the back-end. This way we don't accidentally make multiple requests for the same item over and over again. Some of the popular GraphQL Server libraries that are available today handle a lot of this work for you. They take care of the execution engine, they take care of the batch resolving, and also the network layer. So being a back-end developer working on GraphQL, your life is going to be much easier with the use of the GraphQL Server libraries. Some of the popular GraphQL Server libraries that are out there today are Apollo Server, which is the same team that also has the Apollo Client, and it works really well and is an extremely popular solution which works well with multiple web frameworks. Another popular server library is Express GraphQL, and it works well with Express. Another cool option would be GraphQL Yoga, which is extremely simple to set up and has great tool support with great developer experience.

Database to GraphQL Server
The next layer that we are going to see is the database to GraphQL Server. Prisma is a popular database to GraphQL server, and that's what we're going to explore now. In this back-end architecture, you can notice that Prisma sits between the GraphQL server and the database. So, what can Prisma do for you? Prisma bridges the gap between your database and the GraphQL resolvers, and it's also good to know that Prisma supports both SQL and NoSQL databases. It replaces the traditional object-relational mappings and makes it much easier to implement production-ready GraphQL servers. Prisma provides a data access layer that makes it easy for API server to talk to the database through Prisma. Now with Prisma, you're building applications that are based on coherent set of types from the database to your front-end application. This provides type-safe database access. You can also easily add real-time features to your API by implementing GraphQL subscriptions with Prisma's real-time layer for your database. There are also powerful visual data management tools available with the Prisma admin. You can find Prisma on GitHub. You can see here that it has 14, 000 stars and many contributors. It's quite popular already considering that it's a very young library. Prisma is compatible with several back-end languages like Python, Go, and so on, and also compatible with several databases. Notice here that Prisma is not just used with GraphQL APIs; you can also use them with your REST APIs.

GraphQL Tools
GraphQL is known for its awesome developer experience. Let's dive into some of the cool tools that the GraphQL community has created. GraphiQL; we already saw GraphiQL in the core concepts module. We saw how easy it is to query GraphQL APIs and write mutations using GraphiQL. GraphiQL is an in-browser IDE for writing, validating, and testing GraphQL queries. You can write queries to retrieve data from the API, write mutations to make changes as well. The best thing about GraphiQL is the life syntax that helps you out as you type. Validation errors are also highlighted when you write a query. It also lets you explore the documentation of the API, and that is super helpful. Overall, this is such a handy tool for developers working with GraphQL schema. GraphQL Voyager. Representing something visually is far more effective than just reading code. I always like to create visual diagrams to understand my code and the architecture. Sometimes we draw class diagrams to visually understand the overall architecture of a software system. The GraphQL Voyager is one such tool that represents any GraphQL API as an interactive graph. This is a perfect tool if you want to explore any complex GraphQL APIs. Developers also use this tool during design of the overall data model. Let's look at a demo from their homepage to get an idea of what this visual representation looks like. All right, this is how the GraphQL Voyager looks like. You can see that it is represented as visual models with several chains and links to other models there. This is the perfect way for you to visualize a GraphQL schema and how things are connected to each other. Now let's try clicking on one of them and see what happens. I've clicked on Root and zoomed in there, and you see that Root has plenty of fields and the types are defined too because GraphQL is a type-safe language. You can click on any of these items and go from there. Now we clicked on Film, and we see how Root is connected to film and film has its own set of types. And now we went onto Person, and you can see what Person entails, and you can click on any other item from there. And we moved onto Vehicle. You get the idea. This is the perfect visual representation of a GraphQL schema. GraphQL Faker. This library is used to mock your API with realistic data from faker.js. It doesn't require any additional coding and this is a perfect tool for testing and coding against future APIs or extending your existing APIs. You can check out this library from its GitHub page here. You can read the documentation here to understand more about the GraphQL Faker and how it works architecturally. GraphQL Visual Editor. I already told you how I like visual models. This is another great tool with which you can create schemas by joining visual blocks. The GraphQL Editor transforms them into code. Isn't that super cool? You don't need to write any code and all you have to do is create the visual blocks. It is a perfect tool to understand your GraphQL schema. The GraphQL ecosystem is growing at an amazing speed with thousands of contributors today. There are plenty of tools, client libraries, and server libraries that are out there to help you out. All you have to do is pick and choose the best fit for you. This is the best time for you to start working on GraphQL because of all the support that is available in the GraphQL ecosystem.
