From Testing React Components - Plural Sight (Liam McLennan)

test Renderers renders react components to pure JavaScript objects without depending on the dome, where react testing library lets us interact with compartment output as dorm elements test render instead lets us test against react. Obstructions like components and props test render a renders to an object representation off the reactor compartment hierarchy. It uses react obstructions like components and props instead of using dumb abstractions like dome elements and attributes. For this reason, you contest with test render without needing a virtual dumb library. What Js dome Compared to testing component functions directly or testing with react, test you tills. Test render A provides a more realistic testing environment that is closer to how uses will experience your application. Test render makes it easy to test rendering logic. Simply set up a scenario. Render your compartment and inspect the results. Test render provides it a p I for traversing the component graph and searching for components. Here is a small taste of the test Render I P. I. The create function is used to render a component note that we don't have to wrap it with an enact function, as we did for test you tails. Test rendering uses something similar, but it's hidden inside the create method, so we don't have to see it in how tests find all by type returns old permanent test instances with the specified top find, buy props, returns all component test instances with the specified props and find all returns, all test instances for which the supplied predicate function evaluates to true. Before we test the rover, select a component. Let's quickly review what it does. The rover select a component, displays all of the available rovers and allows the user to select which rovers should be included in the images search. Each rover has a name label the date range for which that rover published images and a check box to select or de select that rover. The Rover Select also shows a low contrast display for any rovers that have a date range that does not include the currently selected date. For example, Spirit published images from the fifth of January 2004 until the 21st of March 2010. Spirit is shown in low contrast, so the currently selected date must be before the fifth of January 2004 or after the 21st of March 2000 and 10
