Concern 1: HTML and JSX Differ

The first common concern that I hear is that JSX differs from HTML. But most people prefer using JSX since it feels extremely similar to HTML, and it's easier to read. Now JSX's syntax is 99% the same as HTML, but it does differ in a few ways, such as htmlFor instead of for and className instead of class. Inline styles are declared in JSON format. And finally, comments are handled in JavaScript style instead of HTML style. JSX's differences is trivial. The list of differences is quite short and thus easy to adopt.

Concern 2: Build Step Required

The second common concern is closely related to the first. When you use JSX, React requires a build step. In practice, this is trivial to handle today. These days, a build step is a critical part of just about any web application. You'll want to minify your code to save bandwidth. You'll want to transpile your code so that you can use modern JavaScript features today, even before your platform offers full support. And you'll want to lint your code and run your automated tests. Compiling JSX is just another thing that happens automatically along the way. Today's two most popular transpilers both work great with React, Babel and TypeScript, and both allow you to use modern JavaScript features today, even before all browsers offer full support. And, most importantly for React developers, both transpile React's JSX for you. And there are a variety of React boilerplates that make it easy to get started and have build steps built in automatically to transpile JSX for you (like CRA)

Concern 3: Version Conflicts
The third concern is potential version conflicts. You can't run two versions of React at the same time on the same page, so this means that you need to keep your React components on the same version for a given page. In contrast, if you build standardized web components, you don't have to worry about version conflicts at all since there's no runtime. Standard web components just leverage the support that's built right into the browser. React and other frameworks, offer efficient DOM updates, reactive data binding, and more.

So, there are other interesting tools to consider, like skatejs, Svelte, and Stencil, which bring those features to web components without the need for a framework. These options are interesting because they leverage the web component standard, but add extra features. They also embed the runtime within each component, so you don't need to worry about version conflicts. And since React is a lean component library, you will often choose to use related libraries with React, such as React Router, so you need to run compatible versions. This means that you typically need to run a recent version of React to avoid a version conflict. In practice, though, I found version conflicts are rarely a problem in React. Since Facebook has been consistent about releasing code mods when breaking releases occur, upgrades to your existing React components can typically be easily automated. Here are three tips to avoid version conflicts. First, agree is a team which version of React you're working with. Second, upgrade React when you're upgrading related libraries. And finally, on the rare instances where there are breaking changes in a future release, decide as a team when to upgrade.

Concern 4: Outdated Resources Online
The fourth concern is old stuff showing up in searches. React is a large, mature community, and it has evolved since it was open sourced in 2013. Search for the term React example on Google, and you'll get over 300 million results. There are over 189,000 threads tagged with React on Stack Overflow and around 100,000 threads on related technologies like React, React Native, React Router, and Redux. And there are thousands of blog posts out there on blogging platforms like Medium and dev.to that cover React and related technologies. Some of this public content is outdated. React has evolved since it was released in 2013, so as you search around the web, you'll see some patterns that are no longer popular today. So what has changed? Features have been extracted from React Core to keep the library lean and simple. Since React is used for more than just the web now, React DOM, PropTypes are extracted to a separate npm packages. Today, React's Hooks are the most popular way to share logic across components solutions offered hark back to stateful components rather than more specific examples of solutions for Hooks.

Concern 5: Decision Fatigue
The fifth and final concern is decision fatigue. React is lightweight and unopinionated and there is rich ecosystem. Getting started in React can feel intimidating.
