Unique syntax and templates vs. JavaScript

Angular, Vue, and Ember seek to make HTML more powerful by inventing their own unique syntax for writing code in HTML. React takes the exact opposite approach and instead utilizes the power of JavaScript to handle HTML.

This fundamental difference is what makes React so elegant. The benefit of the template approach is that it requires less JavaScript knowledge. Template languages provide a streamlined API for performing core functions. You focus on enhancing a template with framework‑specific syntax. And these unique syntaxes have some advantages, like avoiding the confusion that's often caused by JavaScripts this keyword behavior. This makes templates more approachable for developers who are new to JavaScript. And in theory, a template language is preferable because of a principle called the rule of least power. It's counterintuitive, but less powerful languages can theoretically be preferable because they can protect from misuse by only allowing the user to perform a small set of prescribed operations.

There's an obvious downside that we just saw, which is that the template‑centric approach leads to framework‑specific syntax. To get good at template‑centric libraries like Angular and Vue, you must spend your time learning their specific syntax and rules for doing things that JavaScript can already handle. In contrast, React has very little unique syntax to learn. And since React embraces JavaScript, you don't have to learn a new vocabulary to describe the new features that other template‑centric libraries like Angular add to HTML. Most of what you write in React is really just plain JavaScript.
