The web component standard exists of four core technologies, templates which contained markup, custom elements, which allow you to expand HTML with your own custom elements, the shadow DOM, which encapsulates styling to avoid your styles leaking outside of your component, and imports, which bundle everything together into a single line that you can import onto the page.

Why hasn't the web component standard taken off yet? Well, likely the biggest reason that people aren't using plain web components is browser support remains spotty. The template tag isn't supported in any versions of Internet Explorer, HTML imports are only supported in Chrome, Opera, and Android, custom elements are only supported in Chrome, Opera, and some of the newest Android browsers, and it's pretty much the same sad story with the shadow DOM.

After years of waiting, it's become clear that browser vendors have shown little interest in implementing the full suite of HTML5 web component features. So you need to add polyfills to make it all work cross‑browser. And once you're pulling in extra JavaScript, you have to ask why you're choosing an unpopular and poorly supported standard like web components instead of an extremely popular technology like React. React is just one of many non‑standard component libraries.

Second, web components no longer enable anything new. Everything that you can do in web components can be accomplished today in a cross‑browser friendly way using a variety of modern JavaScript libraries, including React.

Let's consider the core features of the web component standard and contrast them with React. Web components have templates for holding your markup, and in React, you use JSX to declare your markup along with plain JavaScript. Web components allow you to expand HTML by declaring custom elements. React components accomplished that same thing. The shadow DOM lets you encapsulate your styles within your web component. Various technologies, like CSS modules, CSS in JS, and even React's built‑in inline styles, assure that your styles are encapsulated automatically. Finally, web components offer HTML imports for bundling the component together into a single import.

With React, each component is a single file, so you can always import it via a single line import. So in summary, web components enable nothing new compared to React today. The third reason web components aren't taking off is JavaScript libraries like React, Angular, and Vue offer compelling component stories that continue to improve. It's both difficult and unlikely for standards bodies to be able to keep up with the pace of JavaScript innovation. Today, modern libraries offer a number of compelling features for binding, bundling, packing, and testing JavaScript‑based components. Finally, since web components utilize standards built into a web browser, you can't use them elsewhere like on native mobile. React in contrast works on mobile and virtual reality too, as well as a number of other interesting platforms. In summary, the web component standard may take off at some point, but currently the majority of developers continue to reach for the tools on the right because they're innovating more quickly, offer a strong user experience, and run reliably cross‑browser today.
