For server rendered React apps CRA create react app) is a popular tool.

CRA is a command line utility that scaffolds react applications so it creates the folders. It's meant for large teams or even multiple teams to work together since the kind of standardizes the structure of the app.

The advantages. You don't need to understand full stack Web development very much at all to use it. It's constantly being revised by experts. So you know you have a good piece of technology. It's an industry standard tool. Developers are already familiar with it, so if you introduce it into your workflow at the office, it won't come as a big surprise. It automatically creates directories and structures your applications based on best practices, so you can rely on automatically getting a reasonable structure for your application. And the tools use are also based on best practices.
It's easy to implement the features that are already supported.

Disadvantages:
It doesn't have much educational value. You just use it and gets the job done. It does use a much larger stack of tools, and one will be using indeed, most frameworks. So if a problem shows up in any of these tools, your app may stop functioning it. And finding which it tool exactly it was, and how to fix it can be a big problem suitable only for a senior developer. In addition, the structure that comes by default, the directory is the way the files are made. These convey used, but they're too complicated to be modified by anyone but an expert developers. So if you don't have anyone on your team who really understands this, you'll be stuck. Even if your team personally disagrees with some of the decisions that the react app team has made on the same note, you have no choice of the tools that you use. So with some exceptions, if you want to use a particular time saving library, you might find that simply too complicated to insert it into the existing create react app, workflow and finally If a feature isn't already supported by create react app, it could be very challenging to add that feature.
